Let's finish off by discussing the name variable and the mainstream.
Often in larger scripts you will see this line of code at the bottom of them.
It will say if name is equal to Main with two underscores in the beginning and at the end of these variables
and strings this line of code is designed to help in the case where function calls are coming from when
working with all pulled up by scripts.
Let's explore that statement a little further.
Sometimes when you are importing from a module you would like to know whether a modules function is
being used as an import or if the original the Paice file you're working with already has that function
play.
So for example if you run a script file at the command line and you notice that you're calling some
function called Hello.
You would like to know whether hello has been imported from another script or if Hello was defined in
the script that you're actually running in in order to do that.
You can use this line of code if name is equal to mean when your script is run by passing it as a command
to the Python interpreter such as Python my script that pi all the code that is the indentation level
0 gets executed.
That is to say all the functions in the classes get defined but none of their code actually gets ran
name or underscore underscore name underscore underscore is a built in variable in Python which evaluates
to the name of the current module.
However if a module is being run directly then that name variable is set to the string underscore underscore
main underscore underscore.
This allows you to test whether your script is being run directly or it's being imported by something
else.
By testing if the name that is that built in variable of the current module is equal to the string main.
Let's explore this idea further with an example for this example.
I've created two dot PI scripts one PI and then two that pi.
So let's go ahead and add some code to these in one PI.
I'm going to create a function called funk and it's just going to print out the following.
It will say func in one PI and then I'm going to say print.
And this is a top level print statement so I will just say top level print statements.
In one PI and then I will say if and notice here subline will actually complete this for us bullets
type it out manually if name.
So if that Bilton name variable is equal to underscore underscore mean underscore underscore colon prints
1.
Pi is being run directly and then we'll say.
Else.
Prince 1.
Pi is being run in.
In another module then we're going to save that.
And now let's go to to the high and inside of two that pi.
We are going to import the one module and then I will print out top level in to pi.
And then I will call that function from the one module and then I will say if that name variable is
equal to the string Maine Prince to that pi is being run directly
else I'm going to Prince to that pi is being imported into an other module.
So we're going to save both for these files and quickly review them.
So what I have in one pie.
I've defined the function.
And if we run one that paid directly then I have a top level print statement in one pie and then I have
this check if my name variable is equal to main.
Then I know that one is being run directly.
Otherwise one pie is being run in some other module.
Into that pie I have imported the one module I'm going to print out top level print statement to that
pi.
I will execute the function from 1 and then I will say if the name variables equal to Main then I know
that the two that pi is being run directly or otherwise to the pie's being imported into another module.
So let's open up our command line and run these scripts.
Let's begin by running one up high.
So we will say Python 1. PI and note what happens here.
I get a top level print statement in one that pi and one that pi is being run directly because the name
variable in one PI was equal to mean because I ran one PI directly.
Now let's see what happens when I run to the PI.
We still get the toplevel print statement and one PI because it's being imported.
But now I see that one that pi is being run in another module.
Then I get the top level print statement into that pi and then I call phunk from the one that pi.
And then I know that too that Pye's being run directly.
So this allows us to realize whether we're calling modules from another dot PI script or if we're running
that module file directly.
Now often you'll see people do the following.
They'll still use this if name is equal to mean but to use it more as an organization for their code.
So what they end up doing is they define lots of functions or classes here so you can think here lots
more functions and then at the very bottom they have their logic for execution.
So they get rid of this L statement and then they say something like prints all my code to run and then
they just call functions here func etc..
So this is a really common way to organize code without postscripts where you define a bunch of things
above this line and then you say all right if I'm running the stop PI file directly I'm going to execute
a lot of the functions that I had up here.
So this is really common to see and in most cases this is actually how you're going to see this.
If name is equal to main line being used which is why when you're just beginning to learn about Python
and you doing some Google searches you'll come across this line a lot and it can be confusing at first
because you have to learn about modules you have to learn about builtin variables and what's actually
going on.
Hopefully this comparison of 1. Pi and the two pi script make it clear how this is actually working.
But realistically when you search for examples online you're going to be going to see it used in this
fashion where you see lots of functions get defined and then you say if the name variable is built into
main meaning I'm running this stop by script directly run a bunch of my functions and execute some sort
of code logic.
All right.
We'll see you at the next lesson.